>> David Khourshid: Okay, so
what we're going to do is we're
just going to brainstorm.
This can be for
a hypothetical flights booking app, or
it could be for any sort of
project that you're working on.
We're just going to take a nice calm five
minutes, and I want you to just roughly
diagram those three different types of
diagrams for whatever you're thinking of.
So, for example, for
a flight booking flow,
you might want to document the different
entities, such as the flights, the hotels,
the bookings, etc, or
you might want to model something else.
Then you would want to
model the sequence diagram.
So basically, how do the different
actors talk to each other?
So you might have a flight search service,
et cetera, and
then just briefly document the flow.
Again, this does not need to be for
this travel travel application.
It could be for
anything that you're working on or
anything that you might
want to build yourself.
So the point of this is just to get
used to thinking about modeling your
application state.
All right, so let's talk about
just making a flow for, again,
anything you wanted to do.
It could be a flight booking flow.
Or what I'm actually going to
do is I was just on Airbnb, and
they have a new design, a new interesting
flow for actually booking a place.
So the idea is that with Airbnb,
we have different entities.
So first of all, we have the destinations.
So we could say we have destinations and
we also have different types of.
Let's call them homes.
So a destination, you know,
it might have, like an id, and
a home might have, like an id,
but also it has a destination id,
because these homes
don't just roam around,
they're fixed to a certain destination.
And of course, we also have users as well.
So a user, they have a name,
they have an id.
This is just keeping things very simple.
But this goes to show you
that modeling these three
different things can be very simple.
You don't have to prescribe to any
specific framework or anything like that.
Then we also have the sequence
diagram where once we make a search.
So in the ui,
we are actually calling out to.
Let's just call this the Airbnb.
Airbnb search service.
And so we are saying,
find search results for this query.
And the query is like, where, check in,
check out, and number of guests.
Again, I'm doing this in plain language.
And so the Airbnb search service.
So Airbnb search service
will respond with the UI and
give us results, and
then we will select one.
So this is one of those
relationships where
the UI is basically talking to itself,
where we select a home and
then we start talking to.
Let's just call this the Airbnb API,
where we will say that we want
to make a booking, and then
the Airbnb API will go back to the UI and
say, okay,
here's the payments information.
And then the UI will communicate
with the payments processor, etc.
And then there's the state diagram.
So what's interesting with Airbnb is it
actually has a new flow in that top bar.
So it's actually pretty cool.
If you go to airbnb.com you
select Unexpected state,
but you select a destination or yeah,
you search destinations like Chicago.
Oops, Chicago.
And then it immediately transitions
you to check in, check out, and
then you add your guests and
then it takes you to a search page.
I have no idea what I just searched for,
but these houses look really nice.
And then it just shows you all of
these search results over here.
So we can sort of model that
flow where first we say,
starts with destination,
when the destination is input,
put in the check in date,
then put in the checkout state,
then add the number of guests.
And then when the user presses search,
it'll take us to a search results page.
The search results will be loading and
eventually show up.
The user can click on one of the homes and
be taken to a details page.
They can go back from the details
page back to the search page.
So these don't really look
like diagrams right now.
They're really rough
representations of them.
But honestly, just doing this is
going to be very impactful for
just documenting what
happens in your application.
And so what we could actually do is,
for example,
I could ask here, we'll just do a new one.
I could ask Claude to say,
make this a mermaid diagram.
And so what it's going to
do is it's going to create
that diagram and
then we could actually copy this and
go to something like,
I think it's called Mermaid Live.
And then we could paste that.
And so just from that, we have our
representation of the different
entities in our application and
we could even have it build it out.
So same thing with this
rough sequence diagram.
So create a sequence diagram in Mermaid.
And also you could ask it to
add things I might have missed.
And so it's going to generate that,
and then we could just use
that thinking for a bit.
But the main purpose of this is that even
though you're writing in plain language,
having this is going to be very useful for
not only your teammates, but
also assistive coding.
Tools and.
Wow.
Okay, so
it does have a very comprehensive,
sort of hard to zoom here, but
a comprehensive flow of how the different
actors interact with each other.
So once we have search results,
we request home details,
the user initiates booking, and
that's going to create a booking request.
This is probably a lot easier to see
in Swimlanes IO, but you get the idea.
You have diagrams that you could generate
just from the plain text that you write.
And so that's why my point in all
of this is just write this out.
It takes a minimum amount of effort and
really you could derive so much from this.
So let's do one more.
We're gonna take this state diagram and
make this a mermaid diagram too,
because mermaid also supports
state diagrams as well.
All right, so it's going to generate that.
And now that we.
Oops, we actually got it.
Now that we have that state diagram,
we could visualize it in Mermaid.
And it's a bit broken.
See if this does anything.
Nope, it requires you to sign in.
So let me do something
different, okay.
Make this an Xstate machine just for fun.
Let's see what happens.
It's actually filling in context and
things like that.
And this actually goes to show you too,
that you can generate these machines and
not even use them in your own application,
but even use them just for visualization.
So if we go back to state new and
we import this,
then hopefully, there we go.
We have our entire flow documented right
here and able to be exported visually.
And you saw that it really didn't
take much effort to do that.
So we're entering the destination,
then once we input the destination,
we're entering the check in time,
then the checkout time,
then the number of guests,
and then we start searching.
So we search for homes.
It also handles things
like if there's an error,
we should handle that error and retry.
And then we're viewing
the search results and
then we're viewing the home details and
then we go back to the results.
All of this information is
really important to keep in mind
when you're either building your applogic
or working on existing legacy apps,
where you might not be sure, like,
okay, how does this flow work?
Using these AI powered coding assistants,
or even just going through the UI and
documenting it yourself makes the
application logic so much more clear and
it gives you a good foundation for
if you need to refactor your code base or
you need to add features or
fix bugs, you do have that outline.
So in the same way that we wouldn't
build a house without a blueprint,
I would not work on an application
without documenting it or
modeling it,
at least at a rough text-only level.
So this just shows you how powerful and
how easy it is to actually
document your application logic.
I like to have a Flows MD file where you
basically have all of this documentation.
Again, it doesn't need to be a specific
format and it just needs to be
somewhere where both your teammates and
also the LLMs and AI tools that you
use can easily read it and understand
at a higher level what's going on.
So any questions about that?
Okay, there's a comment in the chat
that they can imagine that
hooking something like this up
alongside Storybook would really
help from documentation of components.
Yeah, that's true.
And another thing that I really want to
emphasize is keeping this inside of
your code base has two benefits.
First of all, like I talked about,
both your teammates and
AI powered coding tools are going to
be able to take that as context and
to better understand your code base.
And the second thing is it's version
controlled alongside your application.
If you're storing it
somewhere else like notion,
that becomes a lot more difficult to do.
So that's why I like having a Flows MD
file just documenting the app logic.
Or you could shove it into the readme
MD however you and your team prefers.